# Financial News Analysis for Trading Stocks
## Through the advent of using machine learning techniques such as sentiment analysis, this project attempts to construct an algorithm which will be able to classify current headlines as either positive or negative in order to inform investors about which stocks may be poised to trade favorably/unfavorably.
### Componenets
#### Generating the Latest Headlines 
##### This project employs the API found at newsapi.org in order to access which headlines are currently in the news. The API call uses the parameters "business" (category), "en" (language), and "usa" (country) in order to only include headlines which are relevant to the current business news of the United States.
#### Classifying the Headlines
##### Initially, this project used a Naive Bayes machine learning algorithm on the dataset “Sentiment Analysis for Financial News”, which was posted onto kaggle.com by user Ankur Sinha (link to webpage: https://www.kaggle.com/ankurzing/sentiment-analysis-for-financial-news). The provided acknowledegment can be found at the bottom of this page under the "Acknowledgements" section. This data is licensed under the Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 license. The algorithm used the TfidfVectorizer and MultinomialNB functions from the scikit-learn library in order correlate the given news phrases as being positive, negative, or neutral.However, due to having a low accuracy, as well as an imbalanced number of datapoints for each sentiment, I instead employed the VADER library in python to classify the headlines which appeared to produce more accurate results.
#### Analyzing the Model
##### In order to assess the performance of the Naive Bayes model, the data was first split into a "Train" subset (80% of the original dataset) and a "Test" subset (20% of the original dataset). The results of this training procedure, as shown through a confusion matrix, indicated that, while the model was extremely efficient at identify neutral headlines as neutral, it also wrongly identified many headlines with positive or negative connations as neutral. Because of this, the model was extremely inaccurate when attempting to correctly identify a headline as positive or negative, and, since these are the only types of articles relevant to this application's particular use case (measuring future stock trends), this severely hinders the usefulness of the application. Further, when a cross-validation model was used to train and test the data, the mean accuracy was roughly 65%, which is not nearly high enough for a trader to be able to make consistently accurate decisions. After this, I attempting to downsample the data in order to balance out the number of positive, negative, and neutral responses; however, when a cross-train method was again applied to this model, the accuracy did not increase. Because of this, I determined that using this approach would not be the best way to perform a sentiment analysis for this specific task. 
### Acknowledgements 
#### The provided citation for the “Sentiment Analysis for Financial News” dataset is as follows: Malo, P., Sinha, A., Korhonen, P., Wallenius, J., & Takala, P. (2014). Good debt or bad debt: Detecting semantic orientations in economic texts. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 65(4), 782-796. 
Link to project license: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
#### Information regarding how to conduct a sentiment analysis was found in the video "Text Classification Using Naive Bayes | Naive Bayes Algorithm In Machine Learning | Simplilearn" by Simplilearn at youtube.com. Link to video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60pqgfT5tZM&t=966s
#### The code for HeatMap Visualization was borrowed from the article "Various Confusion Matrix Plots" by user Mecit Gungor on kaggle.com. Link to webpage: https://www.kaggle.com/agungor2/various-confusion-matrix-plots
#### The code for Down Sampling was found in the article "How to Handle Imbalanced Classes in Machine Learning" on elitedatascience.com. Link to webpage: https://elitedatascience.com/imbalanced-classes
#### The code for implementing the K-Fold Cross-Validatation was found in the article "Repeated k-Fold Cross-Validation for Model Evaluation in Python" by Jason Brownlee at machinelearningmastery.com. Link to webpage: https://machinelearningmastery.com/repeated-k-fold-cross-validation-with-python/
#### The dataset "S&P 500 Companies with Financial Information" was used fairly from datahub.io. Link to webpage: https://datahub.io/core/s-and-p-500-companies#resource-constituents
#### The API used to collect the current news headlines can be found at https://newsapi.org/

